Cd Deluxe is an improved "change directory" command for Linux and Windows with the following characteristics:

- Speeds command line use by providing the ability to jump quickly and intuitively to other directories without having to type long path names.
- Improves access to the visited directory history in Linux/Unix/Windows operating systems.
- Is an evolution of the humble "cd" command which is one of the most used but least capable utilities.
- Is simple and lightweight to install.

Quick start

cd -    Change to previous directory.  This already exists for Unix Shell but now it can be used in Windows cmd.exe
cd --   Change to the second to last directory.
cd ---  Yes, change the third previous directory.
cd -4   And then the fourth - can use a negative number instead of a series of dashes.
cd -?   Show an abbreviated list of the last visited directories.
cd 0    Change to the zeroth directory, i.e. where the shell or cmd.exe was started.
cd +1   Change to the first directory visitied.  Positive numbers are relative to the starting directory.
cd +2   Change to the second directory visited.
cd +++  Change to the third visited, and so on.
cd +?   Show an abbreviated list of the first visited directories
cd ,    A comma means to change to the "the most common directory".  Comma = Common.
cd ,1   Change to the next to most commonly visited directory.
cd ,?   Show an abbreviated list of the most commonly visited directories along with the visit counts
cd word Change to the most recent directory matching "word".  Regular expressions can be used.
cd + word   Change to directory matching word, searching forwards from the beginning of history rather than backwards
cd , word   Change to the most commonly visited directory matching word
cd filename     Jump to the directory containing the filename.

The only input to the command is the shell directory stack.  This is the builtin "dirs" command on Unix shells and "doskey/history" command on Windows cmd.exe.  No database or file persistence is involved resulting in fast operation.

On windows cmd.exe paths with forward slashes are interpreted correctly.  This makes it easy for copy-pasting into cmd.exe regardless of the directory path style.

